# Plot total emissions, burden and seasonality
> This project reads ECHAM6.3-HAM2.3 data of emission flux and burden to generate global and regional plots. Additionally, the seasonality of emissions and emission drivers is also computed and plotted.
> 
> The scripts use the total emission and burden values generated by the [bash scripts](https://github.com/LeonAnisbel/bash_scripts_total_emission_burden.git). Some of the netcdf files are stored on [Zenodo](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15172565). See more information and results in [Leon-Marcos et al. (2025a)](https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-2829) and [Leon-Marcos et al. (2025b)](https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-18-4183-2025). For the seasonality analysis, the aerosol-climate model output are required (this data is archived on Levante HPC system).
> 
> The conda environment for this project is contained in env.yml file. Run "conda activate env.yml" to set up the environment for this project.


* Run main.py or run_main.sh to create the figures of global emission flux and burden of total PMOA (PCHO + DCAA + PL). The script generates the global plots (Fig. 6 of Leon-Marcos et al. 2025). It depends on the global fields generated
using the model output with the bash scripts. It also creates .pkl files with the seasonal averaged values for various variables, including the 30-year average (1990-2019) and the 15-year average (1990-2004 and 2005-2019).

* Run plot_maps.py script to generate the Arctic plot for each organic aerosol group per season as defined with the variable "months". Also plots the difference between the periods 1990-2004 and 2005-2019 for emission, wet deposition and burden used
in Thesis.

* Run main_seasonality.py or run_main_seasonality.sh to compute the multiannual monthly average of emissions and emission drivers. It will also create the multipanel figure with the seasonality, additionally it creates the heatmaps per regions of
seasonality across years and regions (see function yearly_seasonality_arctic_and_reg_heatmap).